All right.
So first things first, let's create a new Xcode project and we're going to choose Single View app
and I'm just going to call it SeaFood.
So we're going to leave all of these unchecked as per usual and we're going to hit Next.
And I will save it on my desktop.
You can save it anywhere you like.
So the first thing we need to do is to incorporate the pre-trained image recognition model into our
brand-new Xcode project.
So to do that, we're going to head over to Chrome and you're going to go to developer.apple.com/
machine-dash learning, and that will take you to Apple's new website that tells you a bit more
about how you can add machine learning into your iOS projects and a whole bunch of documentation that
is really, really useful.
I highly recommend you reading through the CoreML and Vision documentations because we will be using
them in our app.
So if you scroll down, you'll see this part where it says Working with Models. And at present, they've
got four ready-to-use models that you can download and start incorporating into your project.
So the one that we're going to be using is a Google's Inception v3. From various sources as well as testing
myself,
I find that this seems to be working best in terms of image recognition compared to the other ones.
So if you actually look at all four, they're actually all image recognition models.
But from my own experience, I find that this one works the best,
so this is the one that we're going to be using in the tutorial.
So go ahead and click download CoreML model and you can see it's not actually all that big.
It's about the size of a raw image file, so it's 94 megabytes, and shouldn't take that long to download.
All right, so once you've got it downloaded, you'll see that the file looks something like this.
It's a .mlmodel file.
So we're going to be dragging this into our Xcode project.
So if you head over to your Xcode project, you're going to drag that Inceptionv3 file into the
file structure of your Xcode project. So simply just click and drag and just drop it somewhere inside
the SeaFood folder.
Make sure that the checkbox "Copy items if needed" is checked, and then go ahead and click Finish.
So that's going to take a little while
as Xcode incorporates it into your project. But once it's done, you'll see it appear in the file structure.
And also if you click on it, you can actually see that Xcode has created a model class for this model
that we just dropped in.
You can actually see what that wrapper looks like.
So here, you can see that this is the variable that we're going to be working with the most.
This is the Inceptionv3 model and we're going to be using it to do all of our image recognition tasks.
All right.
So let's start writing some code and incorporate our model into our ViewController.
So first of al,l I'm going to get rid of this
didReceiveMemoryWarning and this line of comments just to clean up the ViewController, so you can see
more clearly what I'm doing.
So the first thing we have to do when we use any sort of framework is, of course, import it, so I'm going to
import CoreML,
and I'm also going to import another new framework which is called Vision.
So Vision is going to help us process images more easily and allow us to use images to work with CoreML
without writing a whole lot of code.
So once we've imported all the framework that we need, the next thing that we need to do is to set up
our UI Image Picker class and this is going to allow us to tap into the camera, as well as choose the
image that we're going to use for our image recognition.
So it's pretty straightforward and I'll show you that it's actually pretty easy to get set up.
So the first step in setting a UI Image Picker class is to declare some delegate protocols.
So we're going to write comma, UIImagePickerControllerDelegate.
So there's actually quite a few that look all very, very similar.
Let's make sure that you pick the right one, not UIPickerControllerDelegate, but UIImagePickerControllerDelegate,
and go ahead and hit enter.
And for UIImagePickerController to work,
it also needs the UINavigationControllerDelegate.
So we're going to add that here as well.
SoUINavigationControllerDelegate, not UINavigationController, and not any of the other ones.
Make sure that it reads exactly the same as I've got here on screen.
Now, as I mentioned, the UIPickerViewDelegate relies on a UINavigationControllerDelegate.
So let's head over to the Main.Storyboard and embed our empty View Controller inside a Navigation Controller.
So do you remember how to do this?
If you do, then go ahead and pause the video, and just do it yourself.
Otherwise, I'll show you how it's done.
So, if you don't remember, all you have to do is click on the View Controller, and make sure that that
little yellow spot is selected, and then you go into Editor, and you go into Embed In, and instead of
Tab Bar Controller, which is the one with the tabs at the bottom, we're going to pick Navigation Controller.
So this gives us a free nav bar, which is that bar at the top, that allows us to navigate between screens very
easily going back and forth.
Now, in the nav bar, we're going to add a button.
So if you go into your object library and search for bar button item bar, button item, then this is the
first thing that should show up,
and this is a free button that you get to use by incorporating the Navigation Controller.
So you can go ahead and click and drag that and we're going to just drop it on the top right-hand corner.
So this is the top right of a navigation bar.
Now, you can see, by default, it's called Item, but instead, we want to get a free image in here.
So if you go ahead into the system item, instead of Custom, we're going to change it
to Camera, and you can see, we've got a nice little camera icon now set up.
So while we're in the Main.storyboard, let's finish setting up the rest of our interface.
So if you go into, again, the object library, and find an image view, this is the image view that we're
going to be using to display the image that was taken from the camera or the image that was picked from
the photo album.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to place it at the top and drag it to fill the entire
ViewController.
Now, I'm going to set some constraints so that it displays nicely on different screen sizes.
And I'm going to constrain with zero points to all four sides, and make sure that the constrained margin's
checkbox is unchecked.
Go ahead and click add for constraints.
Now, ever since iOS 11, you'll see that it says that bottom and top layeout guides are deprecated.
Now, what this means is that the top part here and the bottom part here is no longer a valid constraint
setting.
Now, to fix this, all you need to do is to go into the file inspector.
If you scroll down, you can see that there is this option where it says, "Use Safe Area Layout Guides," and
if you check it, your errors will go away, because it will automatically replace the top and bottom layout
guides with safe area layout guides, and you won't have any problems with that anymore.
So, now that the design is set up,
of course, we need to set up some IBActions and IBOutlets.
So the first IBAction I'm going to set up is the one from the camera.
So we're just going to control and drag and I'm going to call that cameraTapped.
Make sure that you change the Connection to Action
and I'm going to change the type to UIBarButtonItem, hit Connect, and that's done.
The next thing I want to do is control drag the UIImageView and I'm just going to call this
ImageView.
You can be more precise if you want, and you probably should be, especially, if your project is going to
be a lot bigger.
But for demo purposes, I'm going to call it ImageView because that makes the most sense at this stage.
So let's go ahead and click Enter or Connect and that will connect up our brand-new ImageView.
And there we go.
And that's it. We're done with our design.
So let's head back into our ViewController and continue and finish setting up our UIPickerViewDelegate.
So, so far, all that we've done for the UIPickerViewDelegate. i.e., enabling our app to use the camera and
to pick images is adding in these two delegate protocols.
All right.
So the next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to create a new image picker object.
So just below the IBOutlet, I'm going to write let imagePicker = UIImagePickerController, and make
sure you add the empty parentheses as we are creating a new object from the class UIImagePickerController.
So, now that we've created that imagePicker object, the next thing we need to do is to set its delegate
as this current class.
So we're going to write imagePicker.delegate = self ,i.e.,
this current ViewController.
Now, if you get any errors at this stage, just go back and check to make sure that up here you've got
UIImagePickerControlDelegate and UINavigationControllerDelegate.
And when you've created your imagePicker, it is an object of the class UIImagePickerController.
Now, there's many, many variations that look really, really similar to all of these things and it's very
easy to trip up,
so just double check if you're getting any errors.
If you're when you're at this stage.
So, now that we've set our imagePicker's delegates, we're also going to set a couple of other properties,
and namely, that's the source type and the allows editing.
So the first thing we're going to do is set the imagePicker.sourceType property, and as you can see down
here is the type of picker interface to be displayed by the controller.
So the source type what we want is .camera.
So, this brings up a UIImagePicker that contains the camera module, so it allows the user to take an image
using the front or the rear cameras,
and this is probably the easiest way of implementing the camera functionality in any app.
Now, the next thing I want to set is the imagePicker's allowsEditing property,
and this is a Boolean value,
either true or false, indicating whether the user is allowed to edit a selected image or movie.
Now, if you're extending this app, you might want to allow editing because, then, you can let the user crop
the image, so that your machine learning model has to work on less area and a more specific area to figure
out what that item is.
But for now, for ease and simplicity, we're just going to set the allowsEditing to false,
so we don't have to trigger that part.
All right.
So all the setup for imagePicker is done.
Now, we have to specify when we want our imagePicker to appear.
Now, the most logical point for it to appear is when the camera button is tapped,
right?
So all we have to do is to go into our IBAction that we created earlier on inside camera tapped and
say present, because it's a ViewController, bracket, and we're going to pick this first one where we're
presenting a View Controller, and we can specify whether it should be animated presentation or
not, and also whether to do something once the presentation is done.
So just go ahead and hit enter to insert all of that template code and the ViewController that we want to
present is, of course, our imagePicker of the class UIImagePickerController,
so I'm just going to write imagePicker, animated, we'll set as true, and completion, we'll set as nil.
We don't really want anything to happen after we finish presenting that imagePicker,
because we want our user to start taking photos.
So let's just quickly recap what we've done.
We've set this view controller, this current ViewController as a delegate of the UIImagePickerContnroller,
as well as of the UINavigationController.
Then we created a new UIImagePickerController object, and we set all of its properties including its
delegate, its source type, and whether it allows editing.
Finally, when the camera button gets tapped, we're asking the app to present this imagePicker to the user
so that they can use the camera or use the photo album to pick an image.
So what is the natural next step?
Well, what should happen once they've picked that image? We should be sending that image to our machine
learning model, right?
So in order to address that timepoint, i.e., the time point where the user has picked an image, we need
to add in a delegate method, and I'm going to add it just below the viewDidLoad and above the
cameraTapped IBAction.
Now, the delegate method comes from the UIImagePickerController class and its called
imagePickerController didFinishPickingMediaWithInfo.
So I'm just going to start writing the most specific part of it which is didFinishPickingMediawithInfo,
and you can see I didn't even need to finish all of that, and Xcode already suggested to me
the one that I probably want.
So this is the delegate method that tells the delegate,
i.e., this ViewController class that the user has picked an image or a movie.
So, basically, this is the time point where they've picked an image, the're done, you want to do something
with that image that they picked.
So go ahead and hit enter and I'm going to talk through some of these parameters.
So the picker was the UIImagePickerController that was used to pick the image,
and in this case, that would be our imagePicker object here.
The next thing is that didFinishPickingMediaWithInfo and the info is in the format of a dictionary.
Now, inside the info parameter contains the image that the user picked and we're going to tap into it
Inside the delegate method.
So go ahead and click on that code placeholder and hit backspace to delete it. And the first thing I'm
going to check to make sure that an image was indeed picked,
i.e., it wasn't nil.
So to do that, I'm going to create a constant called image and it is going to be set to the image that the
user picked using the
imagePickerController. So to tap into it,
I'm going to tap into this info parameter, which as you can see is a dictionary, and I'm going to specify
the key that will yield that image that they picked, and the key is called
UIImagePickerControllerOriginalImage. And this is the original unedited image selected by the user.
So this will be the image coming out of the camera or the original image that the user selected from
the photo album.
So go ahead and click enter for it to be automatically written.
And now we have a way of accessing the image that the user has picked.
So, now that we've gotten hold of the image that the user has selected, the next thing we want to do is
we want to set the image view in the background of the app to that image that they've picked.
So in order to do that, remember that we had this IBOutlet called imageView.
We're going to tap into it,
so imageView, and we're going to tap into its image property,
so the image that it should be displaying, and we're going to set it to this image that the user picked.
Now, you can see here, as I'm typing it,
firstly, it looks a little bit confusing because we called it image, we could have been more precise
by calling it something like userPickedImage.
And that way, when you're writing this line, you can see that this is a lot more explicit than having
imageView.image = image,
right?
So let's change that to that.
So in this case, what we're trying to say is that the imageView's image property should be set to the
userPickedImage from that imagePickerController.
Now, you'll see the Xcode is going to give you an error saying that you can't assign a value of type
'Any?' so it's an optional to a type optional 'UIImage?'
And the reason why it's saying this is because we're picking out an item from this info dictionary.
We're providing a key to that dictionary and we're getting a value out of that dictionary based from that
key. But Xcode doesn't know what is the data type of that value because it's not explicit. As you can
see here that this info dictionary has a key data type of string, but a value data type of any, i.e., any
data type,
and that's not very specific.
Now, the reason why it's giving you this error is because it doesn't want to try and put some piece of
data that is not of UIImageDataType into the imageView because, otherwise, your app would crash,
so this is why it's giving you that warning.
So let's use optional binding and downcasting to make this more explicit.
So I'm going to downcast this data type, which currently has a dataType Any, into a UIImageView.
To do that,
I'm going to write the "as?" and I'm going to write UIImage. So, now I'm saying that this
data should be a UIImageDataType, but I'm going to also add an "if" in front of my "let" to make this
an optional bind.
So that means that if this piece of data can be downcast into a UIImageDataType, then you should execute
this line of code in between these curly braces.
And, of course, what we want to happen is setting the imageView's image property to that userPIckedImage
that we got out of that.
And that makes our code safer more readable and more explicit,
and all of our errors disappear.
So the final thing that we need to do is we're going to dismiss that imagePicker and go back to our
View Controller.
So it's very easy.
All we have to do is just write imagePicker.dismiss, animated:true, completion:nil.
So let's now test out our app and see if it works. And you can see that the app crashes and you see
a error log inside your debug console.
So if you have a look in here, it says the problem is to do with access.
And it says, "This app has crashed because it attempted to access privacy-sensitive data without a usage
description.
So that's pretty clear cut, right?
So all we need to do is to go into the info.plist, which you'll find in here, and we're going to add
some property list keys.
So go ahead to this line where it says Information Property List, click Add, and if you scroll down, you'll
see
under Privacy, you've got quite a few different privacy usage descriptions.
The one that we want is the Camera Usage Description. And this is basically something where we tell the
user why we need that camera
exactly.
You know we're not spying on you.
We just need it in order to make the app work.
So I'm just going to write something like "We need your camera yo!"
And, remember, if you want to enable the user to pick an item from their photo album., you also need to
add that privacy
where it says, "Privacy-Photo Library Usage," and you also need to add a description here,
so "We need your photos!" There we go.
Okay.
So, now if I rerun this app, you'll see it working beautifully.
All right.
So I'm going to tap on the camera button and you'll see that user's description show up, and I'm going
to click Okay to allow,
and you can see that I've now tapped into the camera, and I can change between the front and the back
cameras,
and also I can take a photo. Now, once I've taken the photo
and If I click use photo, instead of retaking, then it should dismiss that ViewController, and it sets that imageView
to the image that I took just now.
So brilliant.
You've already managed to make the camera functionality work and you've implemented the
UIImagePickerController.
Now I'm going to show you quickly how you can modify your code, so that the user can use their photo
album instead of using the camera.
So all you have to do is, where it says here, imagePicker.sourceType, instead of camera, all you have to
do is just change it to a photoLibrary.
So, now if we rerun the app, if I click on the camera button, you see that
now it's asking to access all of my photos.
All right.
So in this lesson, we've learned to how to implement your imagePickerControllerDelegate.
We also learned how to incorporate a cool machine learning model into our project. And you can see that
both are pretty pain-free and really, really easy to do.
So if you haven't done what I've done,
go ahead and just follow along and code up your project
up till now. In the next lesson, we're going to be tapping into that model and starting to get interpretations
based on the trained model.
So I'll see you there.